---
layout: post
title: "AI Development Cycle 1"
date: 2019-10-04 01:00:00
image: '/assets/img/data.png'
description: 'about tech'
tags:
- AI-Dev
---

If you’re interested in using Machine Learning (ML) to enhance your existing product in the real world, it’s important to understand how AI development functions within the lifecycle and context of a software development project. According to a recent survey by Gartner, industry-leading organizations have, on average, four AI
projects in their development pipelines, and this number is projected to double within the next year. Artificial Intelligence is perhaps the most transformative technology available today.

At a high level, every AI development project follows these six steps:

1) Problem definition

2) Data gathering

3) Feature definition

4) AI model construction

5) Evaluation & refinements

6) Deployment

In this article we will share the best practices for the first step: defining the problem.

The proper definition and characterization of an AI-addressable problem is often more important than the choice of algorithm itself. It can save you tons of work further downstream, preventing you from solving the wrong problem.

It is not necessary for the pattern in data to be immediately perceivable by humans for AI to make predictions - but there does need to be a pattern.



To AI or not to AI?
Begin formulating your problem by asking yourself this simple - yet critically important - initial question: is there a pattern? The premise that underlies all Machine Learning disciplines is that there needs to be a pattern. If there is no pattern, then the problem cannot be solved with AI technology. It is fundamental that this question is asked before deciding to embark on an AI development journey.

Superficially, ML functions much like the human brain. The decisions we make every minute of every day are based on a lifetime of pattern recognition. When we encounter a scenario that is not identical to one that we have experienced before - say, a unique road configuration at an intersection, while driving - we are able to effortlessly deduce what the ideal response should be. This is due to a mental model that the brain has developed - and continues to develop - given a hundred thousand data points, and processed through our inherent ability to recognize patterns at a subconscious level.

ML is a mathematical approximation of this strategy, applied to the digital world.

It is not necessary for the pattern in data to be immediately perceivable by humans for AI to make predictions - but there does need to be a pattern.
